= smenc(1) =
Manual: smenc Manual Page <br />
Release: Revision {{REVISIONID}} <br />
Updated: {{REVISIONYEAR}}-{{padleft:{{REVISIONMONTH}}|2}}-{{REVISIONDAY}} <br />

==NAME==
smenc - Program to encode a wav file into a SpectMorph model

==SYNOPSIS==
'''smenc''' [''OPTIONS''] ''WAV-File'' [''SM-File'']

== DESCRIPTION ==

'''smenc''' is a command line tool to create SpectMorph models from audio files. Usually the input file should contain a
single note of some instrument, like a single C4 note. Since lower notes require different analysis parameters than
higher  notes,  its usually a good idea to use the -m option to let the encoding algorithm know which note is being
encoded.

There is also a quality / time tradeoff, which means you can use the -O0, -O1 or -O2 option to specify how accurate
the analysis should be, with higher numbers meaning better quality, but longer analysis time.

For  multi-channel  inputs,  each  channel  is  encoded  seperately. If you do not specify the output filename, the
encoder will for instance create piano-ch0.sm and piano-ch1.sm from the stereo file piano.wav.  If you  do  specify
an  output filename, you need to include a %c into the name, like piano-ch%c.sm, which will be substituted with the
channel number.

== OPTIONS ==

'''smenc''' follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes ('-').

; '''-h''', '''--help'''
: Shows a brief help message.

; '''-v''', '''--version'''
: Prints out smenc version.

; '''-f''' ''<frequency>''
: Specify fundamental frequency in Hz - this information is optional, but should be supplied  when  known,  to increase  the  accuracy  of  the model.  It is equivalent to specifying the midi note; only one of -m and -f should be used.

; '''-m''' ''<midi-note>''
: Specify the midi note of the input; this will be used to set the fundamental frequency in  Hz.  Adding  this information  is  not  required, but increases the accuracy of the analysis algorithm.  Only one of -m and -f should be used.

; '''-O''' ''<level>''
: For all frames of the input file, once smenc has found out which sine waves can  be  used  to  describe  the frame, it needs to estimate the magnitude and phase of each sine wave for this frame. The optimization level chooses the algorithm used for finding the magnitude and phase; the higher the level, the more accurate  the result  will  be.  However,  it  defaults to -O0, since this is the fastest algorithm: estimating the magnitude/phase from the FFT result. A good choice is -O1, which is somewhat slower, but also somewhat better.

; '''-s'''
: Right now, smenc defaults to including lots of information in the output replaying the file.  Therefore  the files created by smenc are very large by default. To limit the file size, using the -s option instruct smenc to create a "stripped" model, that contains only the information needed to play it.  These  stripped  models are usually much smaller than unstripped models.

; '''--no-attack'''
: By default, smenc tries to find an attack envelope at the beginning of the input, which describes at which time point the attack occurs and how fast the attack is. This option disables that step (which uses quite a bit of CPU time).

; '''--no-sines'''
: Skip analysis of the sine part of the signal (partial tracking).

; '''--loop-start'''
: Set start loop point (in samples) - loop type is set to timeloop.

; '''--loop-end'''
: Set end loop point (in samples) - loop type is set to timeloop.

== SEE ALSO ==
[[smplay.1]]