.TH "SMPLAY" "1" "2011\-07\-19" "Revision 581" "smplay Manual Page"

.SH NAME

smplay - Program to play a SpectMorph model

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBsmplay\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fISM-File|SMSet-File\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBsmplay\fR is a command line based player for SpectMorph models (which can be created using \fBsmenc\fR). Playing can use the audio card, so that the model will be heard directly, or create a wav file instead if the \fB--export\fR option is used.

Since the SpectMorph model consists of sine waves and noise, options to disable one of these components exist.

.SH OPTIONS

\fBsmplay\fR follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes ('-').
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Shows a brief help message.
.PP
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Prints out \fBsmplay\fR version.
.PP
.TP
\fB--rate\fR \fI<sampling rate>\fR
Set replay rate manually; also useful for specifying the desired rate of the wav file, if \fB--export\fR is used.
.PP
.TP
\fB--no-noise\fR
Disable noise decoder, so that only the sine wave part of the signal is decoded.
.PP
.TP
\fB--no-sines\fR
Disable sine decoder, so that only the noise part of the signal is decoded.
.PP
.TP
\fB--det-random\fR
Use deterministic random generator; this will produce identical noise components if the same file is decoded twice, making the audio output exactly the same.
.PP
.TP
\fB--export\fR \fI<wav filename>\fR
Instead of playing the file, write the output to a wav file.
.PP
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--midi-note\fR \fI<note>\fR
Select midi note to play, in case an SMSet-File was specified as input file.
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO

smenc.1 <https://testbit.eu/wiki/Smenc.1>

