= smplay(1) =
Manual: smplay Manual Page <br />
Release: Revision {{REVISIONID}} <br />
Updated: {{REVISIONYEAR}}-{{padleft:{{REVISIONMONTH}}|2}}-{{REVISIONDAY}} <br />

==NAME==
smplay - Program to play a SpectMorph model

==SYNOPSIS==
'''smplay''' [''OPTIONS''] ''SM-File|SMSet-File''

== DESCRIPTION ==

'''smplay''' is a command line based player for SpectMorph models (which can be created using '''smenc'''). Playing can use the audio card, so that the model will be heard directly, or create a wav file instead if the '''--export''' option is used.

Since the SpectMorph model consists of sine waves and noise, options to disable one of these components exist.

== OPTIONS ==

'''smplay''' follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes ('-').

; '''-h''', '''--help'''
: Shows a brief help message.

; '''-v''', '''--version'''
: Prints out '''smplay''' version.

; '''--rate''' ''<sampling rate>''
: Set replay rate manually; also useful for specifying the desired rate of the wav file, if '''--export''' is used.

; '''--no-noise'''
: Disable noise decoder, so that only the sine wave part of the signal is decoded.

; '''--no-sines'''
: Disable sine decoder, so that only the noise part of the signal is decoded.

; '''--det-random'''
: Use deterministic random generator; this will produce identical noise components if the same file is decoded twice, making the audio output exactly the same.

; '''--export''' ''<wav filename>''
: Instead of playing the file, write the output to a wav file.

; '''-m''', '''--midi-note''' ''<note>''
: Select midi note to play, in case an SMSet-File was specified as input file.

== SEE ALSO ==
[[smenc.1]]