.TH "SMTOOL" "1" "2011\-07\-20" "Revision 586" "smtool Manual Page"

.SH NAME

smtool - tool to show/change SpectMorph data from .sm/.smset files

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBsmtool\fR \fI<sm_file>|<smset_file>\fR \fI<command>\fR [ \fI<command_specific_args>\fR ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBsmtool\fR is a general purpose program that can perform operations on .sm/.smset files. Some of the operations extract data (like \fBsize\fR), others modify data (like \fBauto-tune\fR). If a .smset file is given as argument, the operation is performed on the individual .sm files that are contained in the .smset file.

.SH OPTIONS

\fBsmtool\fR options depend on the command used, the command specific arguments are listed below.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBvolume\fR \fI<percent>\fR
Compute average energy of the audio data around \fI<percent>\fR.
.PP
.TP
\fBfundamental-freq\fR
Output fundamental frequency of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBmix-freq\fR
Output mixing frequency (sample rate) of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBzero-values-at-start\fR
Output zero-values-at-start property of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBattack\fR
Output attack parameters of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBsize\fR
Output overview of the size in bytes of the different parts of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBloop-params\fR
Output loop parameters of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBnoise-params\fR \fI<frame_no>\fR
Output noise component of a frame of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBframe\fR \fI<frame_no>\fR
Show original samples and reconstructed samples for one frame of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBframe-params\fR \fI<frame_no>\fR
Show the freqencies/magnitudes of one frame of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBtotal-noise\fR
Sum up all noise parameters of all frames of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBnan-test\fR
Check all frame data contents for NaNs.
.PP
.TP
\fBoriginal-samples\fR
Show original samples of the audio data.
.PP
.TP
\fBfreq\fR \fI<freq_min>\fR \fI<freq_max>\fR
Show all frequency entries of the audio data in the specified range.
.PP
.TP
\fBspectrum\fR \fI<frame_no>\fR
Compare original and reconstructed spectrum for a given frame.
.PP
.TP
\fBauto-loop\fR \fI<percent>\fR
Set a one frame loop that starts and ends at the same point (given by \fI<percent>\fR).
.PP
.TP
\fBtail-loop\fR
Loop audio data at the end using a one frame loop.
.PP
.TP
\fBauto-tune\fR
Tune instrument using the (40%..60%) data to extract the actual frequency.
.PP
.TP
\fBtune-all-frames\fR
Tune each frame of the instrument. This will discard minimal changes in frequency which are normal for most instruments, so it might sound artificial.
.PP
.TP
\fBauto-volume\fR \fI<percent>\fR
Normalize audio volume, using the volume around \fI<percent>\fR as reference.
.PP
.TP
\fBauto-volume-from-loop\fR
Normalize audio volume, using the volume of the looped part as reference.
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO

smenc.1 <https://testbit.eu/wiki/Smenc.1>,
smplay.1 <https://testbit.eu/wiki/Smplay.1>

