= smtool(1) =
Manual: smtool Manual Page <br />
Release: Revision {{REVISIONID}} <br />
Updated: {{REVISIONYEAR}}-{{padleft:{{REVISIONMONTH}}|2}}-{{REVISIONDAY}} <br />

==NAME==
smtool - tool to show/change SpectMorph data from .sm/.smset files

==SYNOPSIS==
'''smtool''' ''<sm_file>|<smset_file>'' ''<command>'' [ ''<command_specific_args>'' ]

== DESCRIPTION ==

'''smtool''' is a general purpose program that can perform operations on .sm/.smset files. Some of the operations extract data (like '''size'''), others modify data (like '''auto-tune'''). If a .smset file is given as argument, the operation is performed on the individual .sm files that are contained in the .smset file.

== OPTIONS ==

'''smtool''' options depend on the command used, the command specific arguments are listed below.

== COMMANDS ==

; '''volume''' ''<percent>''
: Compute average energy of the audio data around ''<percent>''.

; '''fundamental-freq''' 
: Output fundamental frequency of the audio data.

; '''mix-freq''' 
: Output mixing frequency (sample rate) of the audio data.

; '''zero-values-at-start''' 
: Output zero-values-at-start property of the audio data.

; '''attack''' 
: Output attack parameters of the audio data.

; '''size''' 
: Output overview of the size in bytes of the different parts of the audio data.

; '''loop-params''' 
: Output loop parameters of the audio data.

; '''noise-params''' ''<frame_no>''
: Output noise component of a frame of the audio data.

; '''frame''' ''<frame_no>''
: Show original samples and reconstructed samples for one frame of the audio data.

; '''frame-params''' ''<frame_no>''
: Show the freqencies/magnitudes of one frame of the audio data.

; '''total-noise''' 
: Sum up all noise parameters of all frames of the audio data.

; '''nan-test''' 
: Check all frame data contents for NaNs.

; '''original-samples''' 
: Show original samples of the audio data.

; '''freq''' ''<freq_min>'' ''<freq_max>''
: Show all frequency entries of the audio data in the specified range.

; '''spectrum''' ''<frame_no>''
: Compare original and reconstructed spectrum for a given frame.

; '''auto-loop''' ''<percent>''
: Set a one frame loop that starts and ends at the same point (given by ''<percent>'').

; '''tail-loop''' 
: Loop audio data at the end using a one frame loop.

; '''auto-tune''' 
: Tune instrument using the (40%..60%) data to extract the actual frequency.

; '''tune-all-frames''' 
: Tune each frame of the instrument. This will discard minimal changes in frequency which are normal for most instruments, so it might sound artificial. 

; '''auto-volume''' ''<percent>''
: Normalize audio volume, using the volume around ''<percent>'' as reference.

; '''auto-volume-from-loop''' 
: Normalize audio volume, using the volume of the looped part as reference.

== SEE ALSO ==
[[smenc.1]],
[[smplay.1]]